# CU-236, World of Magic

Etrium, also known as Essence, is the central element of all magic that all other magical elements are based on.

The Book of Essence contains all knowledge of every magical element from the most common to the rarest. It gives the reader info on each magical element's properties and how to use them in spells, charms and alchemy. No one will ever know more than the Book of Essence.

However, nearly all copies were destroyed and only one remains. But it was lost centuries ago in a now abandoned ruin far away, never to be seen or heard of again. Until rumors of it's existence and possible location began to spread, though no one knows where it truly is.

But that hasn't stopped one mage who is on a long, potentially endless, quest to find the Book of Essence. They can sense it with their magic. To discover the book will take them on a long but exciting adventure around the world and across vast oceans to different nations, regions, and realms. All while meeting new people, places, cultures, plus spells, potions, and methods of using the many elements of Essence.

## History

CU-236 is inspired by [AI Dungeon](https://play.aidungeon.io/main/home)'s wizard scenario. In it, you play as a wizard who has been a on long journey to find the "mystical spellbook of great power" called the Book of Essence, located in a ruin somewhere. The goal of the game is that you have a 50/50 chance of getting the book in a ruin. From there you learn it's spells and go from there. Essence in Casey Universe is the central element of all magic and the book is the guide to not only mastering the most common ones but the more powerful and chaotic uncommon and rarest ones too.

How I got here was from first asking myself, "what is the essence, really?" I always wanted to develop a magic system and discovering the answer with each tweak on top of external research would give me that answer. The original version of Essence was in fact called just that. However, instead of being the central element from which magic derived from, I accidentally made it the end-all, be-all - life, the universe, everything of magic itself. Which wasn't good when it also behaved a lot like [Bluerium](./../magic.md). This was made worse by the fact that plot dealt with enemies exploiting the same weakness.

The was obviously chaotic, leaving to a full world war in one session, making the chances of getting the book slim without cheating. This made even more worse, at the time, by the fact I was playing from custom prompt. It defaulted to the premium model, Dragon, that was even more chaotic than it's predecessor, Griffin. It created some interesting characters who were trying to find sly ways to get me or I would be experience battles on the scale of World War II. 

This annoyed me at first, as I playing as a humble wizard while beta testing the magic system and so I treated it as if I had already mastered everything. The world info was explicitly stated in bullet point-like fashion. As a consequence, no matter how hard I said I was just a humble wizard, the game treated me like a god.

I was under the classical understanding were the game would do as it's told, regardless of how it was stated. And while that's still true, I never accounted for the AI's ability to understand *nuance*. It's happier if you tell it about it your world as if talking to a friend than treating it as the AI that it already knows it is. And so as I began to rewrite what Essence and do so under the custom scenario system, which defaults to Griffin, it all began to slowly vanish and despite how many times I tried to move the goal post, I could never replicate the events that inspired CU-236. Where did I mess up?

As someone who loves to travel, you'd think the answer would be obvious to me. Even if the journey is now the destitution, you still need a motive for why you're going to the physical location, anyway. It wasn't until I remembered one of my more memorable sessions that I asked my new companion, "what if the answer to stopping this war was in Book of Essence?" Thus in order to replicate those early adventures, I needed to define only the common magical elements, make the book the target and have humble wizard getting in the way of those who only want the book for their own greedy gains.